**********
Currencies
**********

------

Currency
#####


The common member functions are as follows:

- name() : returns a string, the name of the currency;
- code() : Returns a string, the ISO4217 code of the currency, usually three uppercase English letters;
- numericCode() : returns an integer, the number corresponding to the ISO4217 code of the currency;
- symbol() : Returns a string, which is a symbol often used to represent the currency in the real world. The dollar is "$" and the yen is "￥". It should be noted that this function may return Unicode, which may cause the program to fail in Python;
- fractionSymbol() : Returns a string, which is a symbol often used to represent the smallest unit of the currency in the real world. Like symbol() , this function may return Unicode, which may cause the program to fail in Python;
- fractionsPerUnit() : Returns an integer, the multiple of a unit of currency relative to the smallest unit of the currency, usually 100.
- format() : Returns a string, a "format string" used to format the print result.
- empty() : Returns a Boolean value. If the object is instantiated by a derived class, it returns True ; if the object is instantiated by Currency , it returns False . After all, the currency information in the base class object is "empty."
- rounding() : Returns a Rounding object, which is the rounding rule of the currency. By default, no rounding is performed.


Money
#####

To make algebraic calculations of currencies in QuantLib, you need to transform the Currency object into a Money object.


.. function:: ql.Money(currency, value)

.. function:: ql.Money(value, currency)


.. code-block:: python

    cur = ql.EURCurrency()
    money1 = ql.Money(cur, 100)
    money2 = ql.Money(100, cur)

Money is not usually constructed explicitly, but is generated by multiplying a floating-point number with a Currency object:

.. code-block:: python

    money3 = 100 * cur
    money3.value()

------

ExhangeRate
#####

The class in QuantLib that describes exchange rate information between currencies is ExchangeRate , and every two currencies in the Currency system can generate an ExchangeRate object.

ExchangeRate constructor is very fixed and accepts three parameters: ExchangeRate(source, target, rate)

.. glossary::
    source
        a Currency object representing the source currency
    target
        a Currency object representing the target currency
    rate
        A floating point number that represents the exchange rate for "source to target"


    

**Common member functions are as follows:**

.. glossary::

    source()
        returns the Currency object, which is the source currency;
    target()
        returns the Currency object, which is the target currency;
    rate()
        returns a floating point number, ie the exchange rate;
    type()
        returns the built-in integer constant,
    ExchangeRate.Direct
        equal to 0, indicating that the exchange rate is constructed directly through the constructor;
    ExchangeRate.Derived
        equal to 1, indicating that the exchange rate is constructed indirectly through other exchange rate objects;
    exchange(amount)
        amount is a Money object that converts amount into other currencies of equal value;
    chain(r1, r2)
        r1 and r2 are ExchangeRate objects. The currency involved must form a triangular relationship. This function will return an ExchangeRate object to complete the missing side of the triangle relationship.


.. code-block:: python

    usd = ql.USDCurrency()
    eur = ql.EURCurrency()
    usdToeur = ql.ExchangeRate(eur, usd, 1.14)
    m_usd = 5 * usd
    m_eur = 4.39 * eur
    print( 'Converting from USD: ', m_usd, ' = ', usdToeur.exchange(m_usd))
    print( 'Converting from EUR: ', m_eur, ' = ', usdToeur.exchange(m_eur))

    print(usdToeur.source())
    print(usdToeur.target())
    print(usdToeur.rate())




ExchangeRateManager
#####

.. code-block:: python


        ql.ExchangeRateManager.instance()


